Add the in-product AI playbook (#10626)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/handbook/product/ai-playbook.md

This doc describes how PostHog goes on to thrive, instead of being eaten. You're not looking at a high-level exec strategy. You're looking at the **in-product AI playbook** for every team at PostHog.

There are two angles to our in-product AI:

## 1. PostHog Max – the world's first artificial product manager

Product-minded developers want to build the right thing. They already can _build_, and AI dev tooling – like Cursor's agent – helps build faster.

PostHog's agent helps build _the right thing_. Named Max, this is our core AI product. It's [deep research](https://openai.com/index/introducing-deep-research/) for product questions, with knowledge of data and tools living in PostHog.

Max is owned by the [AI Product Manager team](/teams/ai-product-manager) – see its page for this product's roadmap.

> ## 2. PostHog Intelligence - acceleration throughout

Author: @corywatilo What do you think of this branding of PostHog Max vs. PostHog Intelligence?

Still trying to figure out how to reconcile our out-of-product AI (Max in community questions / Chat with Max AI from the homepage) with in-app. That's a _bunch_ of different Maxes, and when someone says "Max" – we never know if they're talking about the website thing or the app thing. I don't think this is good for users either

PROPOSAL: We rename the website Max to **Min AI**, and app Max stays **Max AI** – I'm LOLing, but I'm also dead serious

Reviewer: I _love_ two hedgehogs named `Min` and `Max`...later we can have `Mode` and `Mean` lol maybe `Mean` is some troll

Author: The idea's _on hold_, post-#10679

Max, the agentic assistant over chat, is not the be-all and end-all. AI features can be found embedded throughout PostHog products in targeted ways. We call this PostHog Intelligence.

The principles behind PostHog Intelligence are:

### Everyone can build AI features

While the AI PM team owns Max as the one LLM-powered _product_, **every product team has the mandate to solve problems with AI**.

> As you build, just keep the AI PM team in the loop, so that they can offer expertise and later integrate your work into Max. (Max becomes more capable with every new skill we give it.)

Reviewer 2: 👨‍🍳 👌

### We use LLMs to solve real problems

Use AI features to solve actual customer problems, or problems we experience ourselves. The shiny tech brings a little more temptation to build toy demos – keep that energy, but focus it on solving concrete customer needs.

> LLMs are great for a few types of needs:

Reviewer 2: every opportunity to plug the phrase "Calculator for words" i will take

https://simonwillison.net/2023/Apr/2/calculator-for-words/

:p

- Extracting information from major amounts of text (summarization, sentiment analysis, and such)
- Writing code (especially snippets)
- Brainstorming and general guidance (the models are trained on whole libraries of raw knowledge)
- Executing tasks based on natural language (typically using tool calling)
- Translation (both between human and programming languages)

LLMs still struggle with: 1. coming up with original and novel ideas, 2. reasoning through complex problems (though reasoning is improved with models like R1 or o3).

### We use whatever tech that gets the job done

OpenAI's offerings are typically at the frontier of progress, and scale well. There is no OpenAI monopoly though. Feel free to build with Anthropic (Claude), Perplexity (Sonar), or whatever models and tools that fit the task best. Use the latest releases, as the field moves fast.

> **Should we be fine-tuning models?**  

> > According to research, few-shot learning (i.e. a few examples of input and expected output in the prompt) is typically similarly effective as time-consuming fine-tuning. For reasoning models like DeepSeek R1 or OpenAI o3, even few-short learning is typically avoided, as it's better to let the model reason itself. Therefore, we rarely recommend fine-tuning.

Reviewer 3: This quote might receive negative feedback without references to the research. It may be slightly less categorical. Generally speaking, fine-tuning is still an option for many use cases, but it shouldn't be the first thing you try. It's indeed time and resource-consuming, but it's usually about finding a nice dataset for a particular problem.

```suggestion
> According to our experience, few-shot learning (i.e. a few examples of input and expected output in the prompt) is typically similarly effective as time-consuming fine-tuning. For reasoning models like DeepSeek R1 or OpenAI o3, even few-short learning is typically avoided, as it's better to let the model reason itself. Therefore, we rarely recommend fine-tuning.
```

> ### We eat our dog food

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### We eat our hog food
```
